hi there this lesson focuses on the
second part of the speaking test the
short presentation we begin by
understanding what is included in part 2
of the speaking task
how many parts there are to it and then
we'll talk about some tips for how to
answer this part of the speaking test
successfully after this lesson there's a
short practice exercise followed by a
methods lesson the methods lesson tells
you how to approach this part of the
speaking task in more detail now let's
get started by talking about each
section of part 2 to better understand
how you were required to answer it what
speaking part 2 looks like speaking part
2 is designed to test your ability to
talk for one to two minutes on a
familiar topic the examiner will give
you a task card and you will have one
minute to prepare a response and then
one to two minutes to speak continuously
on the topic remember it's not a
discussion it's just you speaking let's
have a look at an example task card the
task card will help you to structure
your talk you can see that the task card
has three sections the first section
tells you the subject of what your talk
is to be about in this case a childhood
friend the second section is the body it
will give you three points to talk about
the last section is the explanation this
is where you give an opinion on the
topic many candidates leave this part
out or forget to discuss it don't do
that
overall we can see that there are five
points to talk about one describe a
friend from childhood to say how you met
three say how long you were friends for
four say what you used to do together
five explain why you liked this person
use this task card as your guide you can
write notes on the card next to each
point to help guide you through but be
careful not to read will go through more
some more important tips and strategies
in their methods lesson tips use the
points on the task card as a guide the
task card gives you the general topic
with the instructions you should say
followed by three points you must talk
about the general topic you should talk
about the three points but if there are
one or two that you get stuck on you can
talk about something else related to the
topic use the one-minute wisely be sure
to use the one-minute preparation time
to make notes next to each point on your
task card avoid writing full sentences
just to write key words such as names
places dates that will prompt or remind
you of what you want to say look at this
in more detail in the methods lesson
speak for two minutes the task card
instructs you to speak for one to two
minutes but the longer you speak the
better try to speak for two minutes this
will give the examiner more of a chance
to hear your vocabulary grammar and
fluency use personal experiences or make
it up the easiest things to talk about
other things we know experiences we've
had it will be easy for you to describe
your experiences in detail talking about
things
have happened to you will help you to
speak more fluently and confidently
however if you get a task card with a
topic that you have had no experience
with
don't worry it's totally acceptable to
make it up you're not being assessed on
the truth of your answers but on your
ability to speak the best strategy is to
base your talk on real experiences but
you can add in some made-up details to
help you answer the question fully use
your imagination prepare the more you
practice the more confident you will be
be careful though don't memorize answers
there are too many topics for you to
memorize and you don't know what you
will get on the day if you give a
memorized answer you will be off topic
and your delivery will sound unnatural
this will seriously affect your score
and you will possibly get a zero the
practice recordings following the
methods and simulation videos we provide
you with sample task cards give yourself
one minute to make notes and then record
yourself speaking on the topic for two
minutes
focus on your pronunciation and where
you can improve a good way to prepare is
to time yourself summary in this lesson
we looked at part two of the speaking
task we saw that there are five points
the introduction which tells you what
the topic is description one description
two description three and the
explanation practice is super important
although you're speaking about a general
topic you need to practice this is a
task where you need to use good time
management and follow the structure of
the task card but we will talk more
about this in the methods lesson before
that be sure to do the practice
exercises that follow this lesson thanks
for watching
you